Hello, everybody. Welcome to a new episode of
the Center. I'm your host as always Ricardo Lobs
. And today I'm joined by Doctor Ioanna Malinovsky.
She's assistant professor of Philosophy at Adam Mitski Aic University
in Posen Poland. The subject of her research is
a broadly understood philosophy of science with particular emphasis on
philosophy of medicine, philosophy of neuroscience and philosophy of
psychology. She explores connections between these areas and questions
in bioethics, epistemology, ontology and methodology. Her
current focus is on the conceptualization and the use of
ethno racial categories in medicine. So, Johanna,
welcome to the show. It's a pleasure to everyone
. Thank you. Thank you for having me.
It's a great pleasure for me to be here.
OK, great. So let's start reps to introduce
the topic. Let me ask you what is cultural
neuroscience and what does it focus on exactly? Mhm
. So culture and neuroscience is a scientific program that
was introduced at the beginning of uh 20th century by
few researchers from the field field of neuroscience. And
the their um biggest concern was that neuroscience usually treat
culture to um in a, in a too reductionist
way. So it, it doesn't really bother about
it. They, they, that they treat human
beings and human brains in a sort of universal stick
way. And they started to insist that and argue
that um neuroscience should pay more attention to the cultural
factors uh that are involved into development of human brain
and human cognitive structures, as well as the interaction
between brain uh genes uh like the, the,
the, you know, epigenetic stuff and so on
and the environment of the individuals. So, mm
cultural neuroscience in, in is interested in those interactions
between those three major uh categories or entities. However
, I really believe that this term cultural neuroscience is
a bit um over it already because I want to
believe that most neuroscientists uh agree uh in, in
2020 23 that our brains are plastic and now that
our genome is somehow plastic to a point of course
, and that we are uh bios, social beings
like bios, social animals. So we are developing
uh and, and uh while we are doing so
we are somehow embedding the cultural uh the cultural factors
and the, the, the cultural aspects of our
living and the, the uh cultural, socio,
cultural aspects of our environment. So the, the
culture and the society is a part of our cognitive
um of our cognitive uh structure itself. Um And
just to finish when the culture of the, the
neuroscience started to develop, there was this huge um
the biggest thing in neuroscience was probably the it was
probably the whole bunch of researchers uh interested in evolutionary
psychology and things like that. Right? So the
very, again, very universal perspective and very red
reductionist perspective uh when it comes to our minds and
, and our functioning like epistemic and cognitive functioning.
While mm at the moment, we already know that
many of those ideas. For example, the the
thing that there is some kind of no normal brain
and that each brain should look the same. Uh
And that the same structures should be in the same
place, have the same um should be um in
the same size and things like that. It is
uh it is some kind of idealization that is totally
wrong because our, our brains are developing through all
our lives and the way how they are shaped depends
on our experiences. Mhm uh And so uh one
of the topics you've been interested in recently or in
recent times is uh race and ethno racial categories in
medicine. But in science more broadly, I guess
. So what do you think about the use of
the category of race in science more generally before we
get into medicine itself? Do you think it is
scientific at all to use it? So this,
this is actually the problem with the category of race
and ethnicity, but especially with the category of race
. Um So for me, it's uh the,
the great analogy is to think about this this term
, this notion of race as it was some kind
of mythical creature creature. So everyone knows something about
it, but no one actually knows what it is
. And this is what actually is happening when people
are talking about race and science, especially. So
, first of all, it is a highly contextual
category. So each community is actually understanding and interpreting
um it in their own way. Also each community
is actually trying to somehow set or negotiate their racial
hierarchies in their own way. So even if there
are no people of color in that community, they
will probably try to somehow develop. Uh Norac Karch
is based on other criteria than just skin color.
Uh to be honest, uh racism itself uh may
be interpreted as a phenomena that started uh as something
that was not only um associated with the skin color
, but also uh was based on criteria such as
uh nationality or religion. Uh For example, in
the peninsula in like 15 century where people who weren't
, uh Catholics were uh yeah, were sent off
uh because they had a different religion and they were
treated differently. Also, there was this uh at
that time, the i the idea that there might
be some kind of pure blood and the blood that
isn't pure uh was developed and it was also related
to the religion at first. So, um so
as I said, first of all, race means
something else in different context in different cultures, in
different regions uh on our planet. And this is
the the first uh difficulty when we talk about it
because we all think that we are talking about the
same phenomena, but maybe and the same classifications.
And this is especially important for science because usually,
mm when we think about about race, we have
this strong intuition that there are some kind of universal
classic racial classifications, right? Like uh people uh
can be divided into blacks and whites or yellows or
um like this uh we we think about this historical
classifications that there are like caucasians and, and negroids
or something like that, you know, uh while
this is just one nara one narration about class narration
, classifications and in some other like some places,
there are other classifications. Another thing is that when
thinking about race, we have so many stereotypes that
are related to racist beliefs in races that it's difficult
to somehow abstract from them. So even when research
, like scientists are saying, OK, race is
just a social construct, there are no biological human
races. Uh bio um biologists agrees like population biologists
agrees that there are no human races. Um But
maybe we will use some kind of uh Norac classifications
in, for example, in forensic anthropology, but
this is not a a biological race. We try
to somehow relate, for example, to ancestry.
But then what this ancestry means to people, especially
if it's somehow related to this very universal uh classification
that we all heard about like African Americans and whites
, for example, those are those two major categories
there, right? Or Asians as well. And
um, so if we, if we read a
, a study and people are writing about someone's ancestry
and this, um, this, this person or
, or mm, those, those reminds that are
, that the researchers are trying to identify, are
assigned to African Americans or whites. So what does
it tell you even if they will later say that
this is not a biological uh race, it is
more of an ancestry and race is just a social
cultural project like a construct, right? You will
still probably have this feeling that there is something biological
there, right? And uh yeah, and then
finally, um we have this problem that there are
still some people who really believe in some kind of
, so say the scientifical um theories or some kind
of very politically motivated. Uh So the scientifical,
hm hypothesis and beliefs about races and about some kind
of differences between populations that are called races um that
are used but for political reasons and for ideological reasons
to somehow shape our social reality, right? So
uh to, to divide people to, you know
, we see there that, that kind of um
racist narration about different uh cultures about the different um
nations that they are worse than others. Uh especially
now when we have a war in Ukraine uh which
was strongly um related to some kind of nationalist beliefs
of presented uh in, in Russia. At the
same time, it was justified by Russia that they
are fighting nationalism, right? And at the same
time, there is like a huge tension between Poland
and Ukraine and all of those countries that have their
own historical um issues that somehow rem that are somehow
uh remaining racial or racial uh Karch and racist narrations
. So, um yeah, there is a huge
cause and a huge mess and I really believe that
um maybe there is a good think to, to
start like revising this concept and you ask if I
believe that the race is a scientifical concept. So
, so making, I already said a lot but
trying to somehow um briefly present my perspective here,
I would say that definitely it does not because as
long as it is not strictly or somehow precisely defined
in each study, we really don't know what that
means in particular. Um con without the context especially
, but even in a particular context, it is
hard to uh somehow infer what researchers or just uh
normally people think when they refer to race, what
, what they would like to refer to actually.
Um And trying to like fro from the philosophical perspective
, I really do believe like, I, I
find the arguments uh very persuasive the, the arguments
that are saying that maybe there are no races and
no um like the category of race as some kind
of empty, empty notion that is referring to many
different phenomena. At the same time, we could
say that it is very like we, we can
understand it in a very pluralist way, right?
Uh But maybe it would be more precise to talk
about racialized individuals and racialized groups because only by changing
the the language here to more process one to more
contextual one because we are rationalizing others or we are
racialized ourselves in some moment, right? And we
can change it. It's something that is a very
dynamic and not that static category. Race. OK
. I am that race or he is this race
. But what about the fact that people are changing
their racial identities? For example, what about the
fact that they are, they would be uh identified
as having a different race just by changing their uh
their country or something like that because in that country
there is a different a classification recognized by government,
for example. So yeah, II I would say
that it is not the scientifical category and um and
probably uh racialization is a much better concept. Oh
OK. So let's put a pin on that racialization
idea and also some of the other perhaps consequences that
it might have in the domain of medicine. We'll
come back to that later on. I have a
few other questions before we get to that. But
let me just ask you a follow up to what
you said because there are many points that you mentioned
there and many things that I could touch on.
But let me just say that, uh, so
on my show, at least since 2019, possibly
2020 I've had on the show, many anthropologists,
geneticists and biologists, uh, with whom I talked
about race, what were their ideas about race and
so on. And I mean, at least people
that come from those three disciplines, anthropology, genetics
and anthropology, genetics and biology that I think are
the most, the most well equipped to deal with
these questions and not a single one said that he
, that he or she fought that race at any
sort of scientific validity as a concept of it.
So, but, but uh uh uh on the
other hand, I guess that at least from uh
let's say sociological perspective, we have to take the
category of race as a social construct or less seriously
because it still has consequences in terms of social dynamics
, how people think about people from other racial groups
and me some medical consequences as we're going to talk
about later. Right? So, but basically I'm
asking you if, even though scientifically speaking, I
guess that very, very few people take race seriously
. Um in terms of uh how uh people establish
relationships in our societies, how they think about other
groups of people and, and how certain groups of
people are treated and so on. We should take
it seriously. It has some sort of social reality
to it. Right. Um So basically, yes
, like making things short. Um Yes, of
course. I didn't want to say that there is
nothing like, um, a construct that is,
that is cultural, that can be ascribed to people
and just by doing so it can change, like
, shape their lives, for example, and shape
their attitudes to themselves and to others. Of course
. um it, it has a lot of meaning
to be a racialized person. Like we have those
arac identities. Uh And I really believe that in
a racist world, each person has some kind of
a racial identity, of course, each grown up
uh uh person because as a Children, we,
we don't think about that kind of uh factors like
that kind of problems. Uh So ethno racial identities
, as well as the whole racist structure of our
rewards. So uh sys systemic racism and interpersonal racism
. So all the interactions with other people who have
some kind of racist, who probably have some kind
of racist beliefs and racist biases even if they don't
want to because, you know, uh we all
believe in some kind of stereotypes, for example,
that, that, that govern our uh way of
thinking and, and behaviors, even if we want
to be 100% an anti racist and, and very
inclusive. Yet there are some kind of um culturally
acquired uh and embodied uh stereotypes and beliefs that,
that may somehow came up and affect us even if
we don't know, even if we don't want to
. Uh So when the category of race is used
in, for example, um sociology or uh I
don't know, like some kind of cultural studies,
it, it is meaningful and also it usually refer
to something that does exist that exists and that really
is important to, to investigate, uh especially when
it comes to cultural studies. It's very important to
learn how racism and racial hierarchies uh shape human lives
and all of that uh like the uh the social
structure, the, the social reality of our,
of our world. But still, when we think
about them as about some kind of universal and objective
categories, even if socially constructed, then we have
a problem because we are forgetting that cultures differ.
And this is the problem. I believe that because
we hear this very common uh in philosophy would say
like racial talk, um us, racial talk uh
that is based on us ethno racial classification and their
uh social situ situation, social context and economical context
and all the historical context and geographical context that shaped
the, the situation in us and how race is
interpreted there. Uh Then is it is very easy
for, for older people to somehow um I don't
know um somehow believe that this is the, the
way that like racial um divisions are shaped generally and
that's it. But no it's not true. Like
this is a very complex uh problem that may uh
differ different communities in a way that they shaped their
uh as I already said, um how they shape
their admiration uh Karch or uh you know, the
privileges uh that are given to, to different populations
and different uh diff different members of the those populations
. So the problem is not the concept itself may
, maybe the problem is not the concept itself but
the fact that we think about it in a very
, so I I will probably um mm sorry,
iii I will say the same thing as I said
before. So we think about it in a very
static and very uh universal and, and so essentialist
way and when we think about essentialist category, but
about the category in a socialist way and that category
itself is somehow associated with essentialist beliefs about the race
, then it's very easy to, to, you
know, to, to skip from this point when
we remember that we are talking about very contextual and
very processable and very dynamic and diverse category that is
uh sour um uh category construct took place when we
go back to this uh essentialist belief that there are
some kind of biological races. And yeah, and
the, the way we talk about it about race
, the, the way how we describe it using
certain words is is problematic and this is where uh
racialization probably works better again because it is a,
it is not uh like an object, you know
, a, a verb, right? No,
I'm not very familiar with English grammar. Sorry.
So I think it's a noun, right? Yeah
. Yeah. So, yeah. So, um
it is something that is happening, someone can do
that. It's not, you know, this um
this thing that is stable, that the thing,
that thing that has some kind of ideal uh shape
or form that we can you know, check if
, if you have this and this and that then
OK, you, you are uh white or black
. OK. But, but then le let's get
into that already since you're mentioning it again. So
what does racialization mean exactly? And how does would
it differ exactly from the concept of race? So
the concept of radicalization it it, of course,
it differs uh from philosopher to philosopher, from social
scientist to social scientist. So there are many different
definitions of radicalization. Um The way I understand it
is um is related to um very like evolutionary uh
interpretation of metaphysics I would say. So it is
it is uh related to um systems theory and systems
biology. And the the process all metaphysics that usually
comes with this evolutionary biological, like this evolutionary metaphysics
. And mhm And the fact that that kind of
ontology which is multileveled or multisystem or that may be
understood as somehow emergent. So uh not in that
strictly reductionist way. Hm from that kind of perspective
, radicalization is a process or um many processes that
produce or that lead to um the belief that some
person is uh representative of some kind of entity uh
of, of some kind of group. Mm That
is a major biological entity or human lineage uh that
was formed due to reproductive isolation. Uh And that
the membership in this group is transmitted through some kind
of biological uh processes. So, um racialization,
it's not about a question. Are races real do
races exist? But this this about question, do
we believe that they exist? And do we believe
that someone is uh has a race? Mhm And
this is the the uh the most important difference between
uh race and racialization from my point of view,
of course. So we don't need to answer to
this question anymore. Like am I talking about only
cultural construct or maybe political construct? Because we also
have that kind of conversations uh discussions and philosophy of
race, right? So some people are saying this
is only political construct and others are saying this is
maybe only social and what are differences between political and
social contract constructs when it comes to the development of
the idea of race? So I don't need to
answer to this question because for me, what is
important is that some people identify with some construct,
have those identities and what is the uh characterization of
those identities? So here most important mo most important
thing is that it is processable. So I may
have some kind of ad no racial identity in time
. T but in different contexts, I may change
it or I may uh experience different aspects of racialization
in different contexts. For example, I may feel
like a person which is racialized uh as white when
I'm like a privileged white person when I am in
my country, uh like in Poland. Uh and
when I help uh people who are so called illegal
migrants in Poland. So, so people who are
racialized as Muslims, for example, they may have
even light skin, but if they are racialized as
Muslims, they may face a lot of racism in
Poland, right? A lot of racist aggression uh
and discrimination. So in that particular context, I
may feel like a very privileged person. But if
I just go to Britain, for example, and
I will move from Poland to Britain or to France
or to other country, which is um more um
which, which racialize Eastern Europeans as that lower race
historically. Uh Then I may face some kind of
some kind of a no racial aggression and discrimination and
I may lose this white privilege. Uh This identity
that makes me uh more white. Uh w when
I may help someone else in my country who is
racialized, right? I know that it sounds a
bit chaotic but uh what I mean is we can
change those identities, but also we can this racial
identity and the, the fact that someone is somehow
racialized, it has some kind of state of racialization
, I would say uh it occurs on many different
levels. So you may be racialized on the level
of enviro environment differently than racialized on the level of
some kind of a sociopolitical mm Processes that, mm
I don't know, recognize your uh identity uh as
something else because I don't know, some law changed
and now you are uh you are not a white
but you are now a Latina, right? That
kind of changes happened in our cultures a lot of
time, many times. Sorry. Um You may
also feel differently than how people see you, right
? So it's also something else to be rationalized by
others and to have this admiration, identity and to
rationalize yourself. Uh and in all of those uh
context um that kind of um the, the the
organization is something that is happening and is changing.
So, um I'm not sure if I explained it
enough, but um this is something that from my
point of view uh really differs this static category of
race and racialization. Hm. Yeah. Yeah,
I, I mean, I guess that uh if
we approach it on theologically, I guess that uh
race would be more of like a based on a
substance ontology. There is a more essentialist category and
racialization would be more based on uh on a process
on. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Yeah
, you see, I, I do research on
it but, but you explained it better than me
. It's, it's probably because my English and the
fact that I was teaching all day, all day
long. No, no, no, no worries
about that. But le let me ask you now
. And do you think that the category or the
concept, the concept of ethnicity fares any better scientifically
speaking? Because, uh, I mean, as
we'd raise, I guess that when people use the
term ethnicity, not necessarily in science specifically, but
just in society, they might mean different things in
different contexts, right? So ethnicity is another problematic
term because again, people are using it in as
a very different notions. So before you said that
most genetics, like all people who work on genetics
, uh and biology generally said that races, human
races like biologically uh understood they don't exist. OK
. But still race and ethnicity are categories that are
used in biomedical research and genetic research, genomic research
, et cetera, right? And similarly ethnicity and
this is the funniest thing. So basically the the
my first understanding of ethnicity is that it is more
uh it is more cultural phenomena because usually we talk
about ethnicity um in relation to language, culture,
nationality, right? However, it it's not always
happening, especially when we look more closely to to
science. So OK, maybe in soc sociology or
something like that, it would be understood as strictly
social phenomena. But at the same time there was
this uh study in 2021 I suppose, or maybe
22 uh about how the usage of uh categories such
as race, ethnicity and ancestry changed or developed in
genetics. Um So in that study, it was
shown that researchers use ethnicity much more than race at
the moment. Mm For many reasons, for example
, um they want to avoid this very controversial uh
category of race. So they prefer to uh use
ethnicity instead of it or maybe they are from UK
. So they uh the term ray or ethnicity is
, is uh very often replaced with. Um uh
so, so the term race is replaced with ethnicity
even if in their like uh caucus, right?
So, so they don't gather racial data, they
just gather and, and use eth ethnicity data.
Um And uh in such a situation, we have
this, those re those studies are in biomedicine,
like in genetics, genomics that still recognize uh hm
population like uh differences between populations on the basis of
a, a category of race and ethnicity or only
ethnicity even. So, then if ethnicity has something
in common with some kind of biological differences between people
. And additionally, and it was also um researched
like it, it, I even described this um
such situations in one of my papers. I if
additionally, we apply uh th that uh us racial
talk to, to that to those uh uh this
term ethnicity. So if we will understand ethnicity as
some kind of proxy for racial classifications. Then there
is a huge mess here because instead of trying to
the biologist or the centralized race, we are doing
completely opposite. So we biologist and centralize ethnicity.
There is a lot of papers where you can find
information about um genetical differences, like in some kind
of um some kind of gene gene polymorphisms, for
example, uh between populations and those populations are uh
described uh with the relation to us uh Arac classifications
. So as African Americans, white, um native
Americans, uh Asians, etcetera. So what then
what that kind of ethnicity mean? Of course,
in other studies, it would be much more precise
because for example, they will use more demograph understanding
of ethnicity. So it will be uh closely related
to people, people's uh place of living or something
like that. And they would say not whites,
but for example, poles uh instead of whites.
Mhm. Um Yet still, what does it mean
when it comes to my genes? Right? That
I, when, when they call me just a
poll we also have now I I saw a discussion
uh about a new proposition for FDA at no racial
classification in USA uh or O MD at no racial
classifications like some changes and revisions and that they are
proposing and if you answer the questions uh uh to
in their mm in their new forms, then you
, for example, if you are white so called
white, then you can choose, for example,
white pole or uh I don't know white German.
But if you are pole and not white, there
is no category for you. But I know that
there are some poles that are not white like they
have, they don't have a white skin, right
? So, yeah, so this is another problem
here. Uh Yeah. Yeah. So perhaps let
me ask you a somewhat broader question because uh we've
already seen here and also again mentioning some other interviews
that I've had over the course of the last few
years with geneticists, anthropologists and biologists on the show
and people can go back and check them out.
Some of them have even raised on the title so
you can, you can get there easily. Um
uh There are so race and ethnicity are very messy
concepts and when people try to study, for example
, differences between human populations, sometimes they use those
concepts, other times they do not use them.
But still do, do you think that there might
be some issues associated with assuming differences between human populations
when studying them? I mean, expecting there to
be uh differences between human population. I believe that
there are human differences between human populations. Um like
our populations are very variant, like there is a
huge variety between people, right? Um And of
course, it would be silly to say that there
are no genetical differences between people or there are no
I don't know, like other differences between people.
There are those differences but race and ethnicity are a
very shitty categories to, to be used to,
to study those differences. Um For all of those
reasons I talked about also like usually race and ethnicity
, like ethno racial data in, in, in
us are gathered um by uh information about people's um
self ID, ID, identification, right? So
their self identity, but what does self identity,
what, what it tells us about their genes?
It is difficult to say, right? And again
, what the fact that I live in Poland.
Uh So I am appalled, say about my genes
, something probably. But we know that our researchers
uh our research, our studies, our science may
can be and should be much more precise. And
this is something that may sound funny. But um
like in this part, like in my part of
the world. So, so Eastern Europe, uh
people moved a lot because for example, because of
World War Two, right? And a part of
my family is uh from via, so a place
in uh contemporary Ukraine and they had to, most
of them were killed uh by nationalists and some of
them escaped to Poland, other parts from my family
, like other ancestors uh in my family could come
from some kind of um eee even more, more
from the west and from east. Sorry. So
uh my genetic, my, my DNA and my
genome is a bit mixed. So why it matters
and why, why I am talking about it first
. Um Because for example, when I was visiting
a surgeon um because I had some problems with my
jaw. He said that I have a mongoloid skull
. Uh and it sounds a bit weird. Uh
The the the surgeon said, like look at my
head scans, right? RT G scans. Mm
He, he, he said, OK, you
cannot spot it when you, when you see your
face, your skin. But when I see your
skull, yeah, it's definitely Mongoloid said. All
right. Um Yeah, and that's true. I
have probably we have some kind of Asian ancestors and
sometimes it really doesn't matter but sometimes it does.
And for example, if we, if we think
about medicine and biomedical research, it is very important
. And uh and in this context, I usually
uh talk about uh one situation from my life again
, like especially from my mother's life to be honest
. Um So she had some kind of um um
some something grow on her jaw again and her dentist
uh sent her to a surgeon. Uh they did
some kind of uh tests and said that probably it
is a cancer like a serious cancer. Uh but
they have to do a biopsy because they are not
sure they cannot recognize it. And she was like
, afraid she's dying for about three months. Uh
Everyone was saying we are not sure we cannot interpret
your uh results. Uh we have some doubts but
probably this serious and she didn't know what's happening with
her. As long as one of her doctors sent
her uh medical data, health data to some kind
of international conference. And in Poland, we don't
gather and use erac categories when it comes to uh
health data. So there was no information about her
, the color of her skin. Uh and as
, as fast as her skin was invisible to those
people, they only had her scans and the information
like the data, someone quickly said, OK,
this is nothing, this is nothing serious. This
is just this uh uh Asian thing that many Asians
has, but it's, it's not serious. Uh
So, so she should, she should be fine
. So she had to lose her skin like metaphorically
and lose her race to be di di diagnosed,
right? And that kind of mistakes in diagnosis may
happen uh repeatedly when we believe that race, especially
someone's skin color and someone's identity may be a good
proxy uh for some kind of genetical polymorphisms. Sorry
in our like there is no gene for race.
Yeah. Yeah. And, and that's the thing
, right? Because I was just going to ask
you about that, what in terms of health information
, what are some of the consequences that we having
or we, I mean, I'm saying that in
particular countries it works like that people have uh racialized
health information and what, what are some of the
biggest consequences of the the the negative consequences. Of
course. So again, this is a very problematic
issue like a very problematic uh question because from the
one side, there is a huge gap in knowledge
about the whole minorities, right? And in the
history of science, most research was done on white
privilege, middle class and young men uh because they
studied in those universities, universities where the research was
done. Of course. So for example, in
neuroscience, until the beginning of uh 21st century,
hm most scans like uh F MRI s and everything
was done on, on, on white uh middle
class men around 2022 or something like that. And
it was, it was a huge issue. So
we started to gather a data about other populations,
about other cultures, like pe representatives from other cultures
uh about representatives of groups that were um um were
excluded from, from uh research before. And this
is great because we need to know more about uh
body uh woman bodies about um bodies of people who
experienced racism, uh bodies of people who, who
have totally different experiences than ours, how it affects
them, uh how different geographical um um environment or
economical environment changes and affects us. Uh We,
we need that knowledge, right? We also need
the knowledge about how we respond to different psychological environments
or how we should design cars for, for people
who are not a standard person, right? And
the standard person is always white. So um in
the mail, of course, so this is great
that we started to, to somehow worked with this
problem of a huge knowledge gap about other others,
generally. However, um when we are understanding those
differences through those categories of race and ethnicity, um
again, we are doing this mistake that we keep
thinking with essentialist and racist classes, I would say
. Um so why it is important for uh uh
to, to talk about those issues uh when it
comes to health care and biomedical research, especially healthcare
, because you asked me about medical care, right
? It's uh it is because first um this is
uh something that is uh making racist beliefs stronger.
So for example, if we, even if we
have a very good uh intuition, like very good
motivations, we want to, we don't want to
be color blind, right? Uh And we want
to um fully acknowledge that we have uh patients that
are from minorities and that may have some kind of
medical issues because of that, for example, because
of the effect of um uh racist discrimination on their
health. Um If we just in fear that it
is possible from the color of their skin, then
we are usually um as uh thinking about it in
a way that is somehow racist just because we applied
it all this framework or connected with racial um discrimination
and it includes uh worse access to education and living
in poverty and maybe some totally racist stuff like lower
IQ um and things like that. But why,
like, maybe this is a person who is twice
as rich and uh you know, like wealthy and
economically privileged um than 20% of white people in states
or something like that, who of course have their
privilege as well. But we need to learn how
to uh recognize those aspects of our identity that tell
us something about the discrimination that we could um experience
. So when we try to um research do research
about the impact of racism and racialization on, on
people's health, we need to be able to recognize
on about which level of racialization we are talking about
. Are we talking about lower access to health care
in terms of um like space that divides people from
hospitals, like geographically speaking, like very, very
material thing or are we talking about some kind of
uh epigen uh historical problems that the members of certain
communities faced their, their ancestors? Um So some
kind of traumas could be passed through generations or maybe
we are talking about the fact that uh someone uh
won't get some kind of, I don't know uh
uh won't get a scholarship or won't be published in
the scientific journal because he or she is from,
I don't know, Mongolia and people usually don't treat
scientists who are not from core countries as seriously as
others. So, Yeah, we, we just
need to recognize about what we are talking about,
right? And when we just use race and ethnicity
, there are just two broad concepts. They,
they re relate to so many different ways of discrimination
, to so many different experiences, to so many
different things that, that no one knows about what
they are talking. Right? And let, let
me ask you a very specific uh related question to
medicine and health care because I mean, by using
categories like race and ethnicity. But I guess even
more so race and medicine, one thing that people
do is that they study the prevalence of certain diseases
across different races, right? And uh together with
that, usually I'm not, I'm not saying that
always, but usually comes the assumption that because they
find uh there, that there's a difference in prevalence
of certain diseases across races, there must be a
genetic basis to, to those differences, right?
And but isn't that also somewhat problematic? Uh I
, I don't know if you agree with what I'm
about to say or not, but I've also talked
with a few sociologists on the show. And actually
, for example, in the US, uh they
criticize some of the ways that people in medicine deal
with health information, racialized health information because uh they
say that uh perhaps there are some diseases that have
higher prevalence in uh black people. Uh Black Americans
, not because of their race or anything genetic,
but because, uh, I mean, if you
look at the socio-economic data, usually, uh,
african-americans fare worse in terms of their socio-economic status than
, uh, whites in America. And so some
of that might be explained not by genes or genetics
, but by the, by them being poor,
their socio-economic status and all of the things they are
exposed to while poor that perhaps other, uh,
o, other groups in America are not as exposed
to as they are. And I mean, I'm
not saying with all of these deaths, some diseases
uh do not have any genetic basis at all.
Of course, some of them have. But still
, I mean, there are, there are these
complications that derived from the fact that uh there are
certain instances where we use racialized information in medicine.
Yes. So yeah, I I was talking about
it actually, like there are some kind of differences
that uh are caused by social, cultural or economic
and environmental factors generally uh that may be spotted and
recognized as racial differences. But they um are there
, there was this uh great sentence that I really
loved uh uh And that was pretty popular during COVID
pandemic. Uh when researchers try to criticize the biolog
organization of uh differences when it comes to deaths uh
of COVID between different communities. And they use this
uh a phrase that it's not a matter of race
, it is a matter of racism. So,
yeah, there are many differences between com like many
health differences in between communities and populations that are caused
by uh racism and social inequalities. However, there
are also some kind of differences between populations that are
caused by our genes. But yet, as I
said before, category of race and ethnicity are not
perfect categories to be used as a proxy for those
differences as well as our features such as skin color
, right? Like our skin color may be important
if we want to study how we uh actually mm
gain vitamin D, right? Because this is or
perhaps for example, differences in uh in, in
developing skin cancer. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So let's use a skin color when we are researching
something that is connected to skin color, right?
But even then the category of race and ethnicity say
us nothing. We just need to use, you
know, some kind of uh gradient that is related
to colors because I'm not sure if uh if I'm
right, but I would say that many people who
are white have a lighter skin and darker skin,
like my skin may get very dark uh during summer
. But I know some people who just go outside
and get burned in like 10 seconds, right?
And there probably is some difference here as well that
should be researched. So, so yeah, if
we, if we think that our patient, for
example, or or if we think that in our
study, something may be uh caused by a difference
in skin color, then focus on that. If
we think that some kind of differences between populations or
, or communities may be caused by socio economic factors
, then we should use some kind of uh measures
like frameworks that measure uh socioeconomical uh mm differences and
vulnerability, vulnerability. I'm sorry, I cannot pronounce
this word. Vulnerability. Yeah. Yeah. This
one. So if, if we think that some
differences may be caused by uh some kind of differences
in health literacy or diet, we should look at
those but not race in general because all whites don't
eat the same food and all blacks don't eat the
same food, right? So uh we just need
to be more precise about what we are researching.
And this is what I'm trying to say that in
some cases, a no racial identity may be very
important if we want to me, like if we
want to investigate, for example, how people experience
stress caused by their identity or how they, how
does the level of stress differs between them and between
people who self-identity differently? Like as a minority,
for example, when they face uh police uh policemen
, a police. Uh Yeah, just a police
. Uh and it is um uh it is uh
it was studied by many researchers that usually people who
are um representatives of minorities. Of course, usually
in those, in those studies, it is written
that black communities and African Americans have a higher level
of stress w while facing police than whites. And
this is totally normal because of course they are discriminated
and they have to face this violence um on a
day or daily basis. But then, um,
so, so then, um their, their identity
is important, it is relevant in this particular context
, but it's not relevant in a, in a
context of our genome. Right. Right. A
and so, I mean, basically these ideas that
you're putting on the table now about looking at what's
relevant in each particular case is what perhaps a post
racial kind of medicine would look like. Right.
Um Maybe, yes, like we, we just
need to be, I, I love precision.
Probably, maybe because uh I'm a philosopher. Uh
and I wonder what concept means? Maybe because I'm
autistic and I love precision even more. Uh But
hm I think that in science to make it functional
and to, to, to functionally communicate with other
scientists, not to, not to just create a
huge mess like conceptual mess as um as it is
with, with the case of race and ethnicity and
their use in biomedical research, we need to be
precise but to do so, we need to be
aware that each of us has a lot of beliefs
that are sometimes even unconscious. Uh a lot of
ontological methodological beliefs that we just acquired through our cultural
training, education from our scientific community even. And
we usually don't question them. But if we,
if we just use some kind of categories without any
asking any questions, especially if they are those such
a controversial and, and so powerful categories. Um
Then it is, it is um we need to
, we need to ask those questions, what are
we, what kind of differences we are looking for
? Um What we are researching, what do we
want to say? Because even by like the only
by designing our research in one way or another,
uh we change our results and and we we can
affect it. So there is this uh um this
quote that what we put into our, you know
, research data, for example, it is what
we get in our results. So do we need
to put a racial data everywhere or those categories everywhere
. This is another question that from my perspective is
very important like in in USA uh some institutions that
finance uh biomedical research require scientists to use gutter and
use erac categories in their studies. So they actually
need to use race and ethnicity as one uh of
reference classes or subgroups in their research, right?
But it it is not a neutral, it is
somehow it may affect what they are researching, how
they are doing it and what kind of results they
are getting out of the the research. So yeah
, the the awareness of like methodological and conceptual awareness
in science is very important from my point of view
. So let's change topics completely now, and getting
into the last part of our interview, let's talk
about a completely different topic that is human robot interaction
because you also have some interesting work on that.
I read a few papers of yours on that.
And uh I would like to ask you because when
it comes to human robot interaction, I mean,
there are many different aspects of it that we could
talk about here. But I would actually like to
ask you about empathy specifically. So uh this empathy
apply in this context of human robot interaction. I
mean, is it even possible for humans to feel
empathy for robots? So yeah, I think so
. Um there is uh there are some kind of
studies showing that those uh areas of our brains are
similarly activated when we also report feeling empathy toward robots
. As when we report feeling empathy with people,
uh people, people feel that empathy like they,
they can describe it as similarly to a situation when
we feel empathy to some kind of cartoons. Uh
when we, while we are watching movies or you
know, when you have uh plaques in your wall
for electricity, electricity, sometimes they look so sad
or so happy like when they looks like they have
eyes and a face. So we have, we
are those weird animals uh that have this tendency to
anthropomorphize other beings and other entities. Uh uh And
if those entities have some kind of features that makes
it easier for us to anthropomorphize them then, yeah
, we easily do so. A a and,
but what would be perhaps from the perspective of philosophy
of science? And I guess that in this particular
case, the specific areas of philosophy of science that
would apply here would be something like philosophy of cognitive
science, neuroscience, psychology, uh disciplines like that
. What are some of the explanations out there for
why we might feel empathy for robots? Ok.
So, hm, this is a problem that I
investigated um as a result of my previous research on
other uh race effect uh and using category of race
in neuroscience because I had to write something about robot
be robots being uh a part of the team where
the P I asked me, OK, you should
do so. So, you know, you don't
have a job, you have to, you have
to uh take what they give you. So,
so yeah, uh I had to switch and after
reading a lot of papers about um uh human robot
interactions, I just spotted that in many cases they
refer to empathy. Um And as I already told
you, I love precision, but I saw that
this term, this notion empathy is used differently and
understood differently in almost every, every study. And
that's OK. We can agree that sometimes when some
kind of concepts uh even if they are, even
if no one knows what they mean, they are
used, but they works, that's fine. That's
fair enough. But at the same time, I
put it that first, those interactions uh and our
ability to empathize with um robotic agents depends on factors
that are very similar to those that shape um inter
uh like intergroup um relations between, for example,
the representatives of different um ethno racial groups. So
um that many different factors may shape our attitudes towards
robots and uh they may affect the, the way
we empathize with them or if we empathize with them
or how much, how is the level of this
empathy? Uh And the third thing was that I
also a as a philosopher, I know that many
, many of us are very conservative in a way
. Um We understand such a basic uh concept such
as society. So for example, when I start
, uh when I wrote my first uh paper about
empathy in human interactions, and I send it to
some Polish journal. Uh I get a review that
it is uh nonsense to talk about any kind of
social relations with robots because robots cannot be social agents
, right? Because social agents need to be conscious
. Uh and they need to have some kind of
social intentions, et cetera. But yeah, but
at the same time, our social ontology is changing
when, when our culture is changing and it is
shaped by technology, right? And we are thinking
about animals in terms of personhood. So why not
to think about robots as some kind of partners in
our social reality, especially that it is more about
how we interpret them uh than if they like if
robots feel empathy because of course, at this stage
of our technology, it's, yeah, it's a
very abstract question. Um My question was more about
is it um useful or is it justified to use
the term from methodological point of view to use the
term empathy while studying interaction between people and robots.
But and yes, it is from my point of
view, it is, it is uh it is
very um it there are many arguments supporting the the
thesis that that empathy is something that that can be
uh successfully used uh in human robot interaction studies.
Uh First of all, as I already said,
people report feeling empathy, then neuro head scans and
F MRI studies show similar levels of activity in similar
brain areas that uh yeah, then like the most
important thing is that s the function of social robots
is to somehow get into social interaction with their users
, right? For example, to become a substitute
of human relations when it comes to other people in
houses, when they feel very lonely. Uh It's
it's getting more and more popular even here in my
city in Pozna uh in in some uh hospitals or
uh places where, where with many elder people and
we have those uh small um se not Sequels but
um some white like sea creature, which is super
sweet and cool. Like, like the one that
is playing in a ball in a circus, like
in a very stereotype, stereotypical uh dolphins, not
dolphins. Um, never mind. Sorry. Uh
In po it's Foer. 00, yeah. Oh
my God. I, I'm missing the name.
I'm also missing. Uh it's, it's a sea
, it's not sea lion or is it? Yeah
, I don't know why. Look, I'm also
not sure, at least at the moment, I'm
not sure if it's sea lion or not. So
sorry people uh excuse us. We are. Yeah
, I, I usually, I usually do not
talk, I usually do not talk about these animals
in this. Yeah, me neither. So,
so yeah. Uh they are used in many that
kind of situations where as a substitute of, of
human interactions like social interactions and it is totally relevant
because our societies are getting older and, and we
have to do something about it right? There is
more and more older people in our communities that,
that feel this loneliness and it affects their mental and
physical health. So um yeah, why um why
this is a question? Like why bother? OK
. There are those studies that use this term empathy
, people report it. So why, why it's
, it's something to, to, to talk about
, right? Even if some philosopher said it's no
, it's a nonsense because robots cannot be social.
It is just one person in Poland, right?
Uh uh Yeah, but, but I thought that
maybe um again, it would be much um more
functional and much more useful if we try to somehow
recognize how this empathy thing is understood in that kind
of research. And what does it really mean?
And is it the same empathy as we feel uh
when we have a contact with people or not,
usually empathy is understood as some kind of relation,
like something that you feel because someone else felt right
is like a coil, right? Like uh like
some kind of effect because someone else felt something there
are those um theories about mirror neurons and things like
that. It's not that important in this context,
but what is important is all right. So how
can we empathize with some something that doesn't even feel
right? Um Why, why should we research something
like this? Uh First as I said, because
this is the function of those mechanisms, they sh
in some cases, they should make us feel empathy
, empathetic. But in other cases, in other
situations, we should also know how to stop this
. Um this uh some kind of uh empathic relation
because it might be uh unfunctional or unuseful. For
example, as in the case of military robots,
when they should just b um some kind of like
they just support human operators and and uh human um
forces on a on the front line. But if
those people who work with those robots feel empathy towards
them, then their life may be endangered and there
are some cases of such situations, right? So
we have to know, we, first of all
, we can learn a lot about ourselves about our
ability to empathize with others by studying human robot interactions
. Because it's much easier for example, to,
to repeat some kind of experiments with robots than to
repeat them with people to somehow I don't know,
to check how we uh uh rep replay or like
how we um react to uh when we see robots
being heard, then how we react, seeing people
being hurt, right? So yeah, we can
learn a lot about empathy in people like, you
know, uh by, by that kind of research
. And I think it's fascinating also, I think
it's fascinating how we understand empathy. Maybe it's not
something very like substantial, maybe there is a,
it is more uh moral relational thing. And there
are that kind of interpretations of relations between robots and
people that this is a matter of relation. And
it doesn't really matter if robot answer to us with
the real feelings, it's more a matter of what
is happening, which was between human, like uh
be between human and robotic agent. And I think
when it comes to social robots, especially the uh
to the, when it comes to those who,
who could work in health care, for example,
um the this question about this relation and how to
design this relation, how we should design the the
look of the robot, its name its uh its
voice because all of the those little details matter when
it comes to interactions with others because we may feel
more familiar with them or less familiar, we may
feel endangered or, or, or not by someone
who, who is so different than us or,
or, or too, too alike as us.
So trying to, to answer to the question is
the real empathy between in those interactions? Mm I
understood that. OK. It's there are there are
there are really more interesting questions there, like what
kind of factors shape this relation, how we can
change it in which situations it is good to somehow
heighten this level of empathy towards robots in which we
should somehow lower it and how it can change our
society as a whole. Mm If we will use
that kind of manipulations also, what kind of dangerous
comes with a manipulation uh with our empathetic reactions to
robots? We can easily imagine that some kind of
very cute puppy like robots will ask us to for
example, will be will be sold as the toys
and ask our Children to to buy them more um
more I don't know to like toys or clothes or
other kind of stuff uh or some kind of applications
. And by doing those cute faces like from uh
Pixar movies, they will just manipulate our reactions and
make us feel uh pretty, you know, vulnerable
to, to, to what they ask for,
especially if they will create relations with the the youngest
Children, for example, right. So yeah,
there, there are a lot of questions here that
are very interesting from my point of view and and
empathy is just a yeah, the question about empathy
is just a starting question here. Probably. No
, that that is all very interesting and I guess
uh just uh and this probably will be my last
question. But uh you mentioned something at a certain
point there, you mentioned uh the relational aspect that
perhaps many people question that we are really able to
establish some sort of relationship with robots. But actually
, I mean, there are people out there that
report uh experiencing a sort of relational thing, right
? With uh with robots, like for example,
social robots and now and then you hear it also
applied to sex robots, for example, so that
that's something that we also have to consider. It's
not just because robots might not be able at least
at this stage. And I'm not sure if they
ever will be able to do that, to feel
something about us to have for there to be some
sort of let's say emotional reciprocity or something along those
lines that people uh do not sometimes think about uh
or uh think about the their robots, the robots
they use or interact with certain ways as having a
relationship with them, right? Um Yeah, like
this is happening all the time when people fall,
fell in love with uh robots, for example,
or robotic dolls. Uh those sexual robots, uh
There is maybe more um radical form uh of such
a situation when people suffer from something called object ofilia
and they fell in love in objects. So for
example, there's this story about women who fell in
love with Eiffel Tower, right? Or, or
things like that. Uh But when it comes to
, to social robots, uh mm The question is
how we define emotions and how we define relations and
what really matters to us, right? Can we
say that we feel sad because something happened to Robert
? Um Yes, of course, we can feel
sad in such a situation. There are examples of
those uh movies from Boston dynamics, right? When
where people kick robots that are, are very,
that move in a very biological way and have this
animal like shape. So many people report that uh
feeling empathy those to those to those creatures, creatures
mechanisms. And they even um there was even this
website with the petition stop uh robot abuse and things
like that. So yes, of course, it
is similar to our human interaction from my perspective,
like I don't know if people who I know who
I trust and who I take care for are not
, for example, psychopaths and just don't manipulate me
, right? Um I don't know if people who
pretend to be interested in my, uh, well
, being really are, um, if I go
to a shop, people are nice and they are
smiling, smiling. Uh, and I usually reply
with a smile. Right. But is it a
true relation? They are getting money for it and
maybe they are frustrating and thinking about, I don't
know, putting a knife in my back. Right
. How can I know? Yeah, I guess
, I guess that, I guess, I guess
that what you're alluding to there is the fact that
, ok, so when it comes to robots,
perhaps there's nothing there, at least on their side
psychologically, but sometimes when it comes to humans themselves
, uh there can be something there but it might
be deceitful sometimes. And so, I mean,
the things we attribute to other people uh might not
correspond to. Um, no, I, I
wanted to say that, um, does it really
matter if robots are responding with the same kind of
like something similar um for us, for our society
at this stage, right, at the stage of
uh of uh development, technical development and social development
. Of course, we can theorize about feeling robots
in the future, but we know so little about
our own reactions and emotions and we have so many
issues with peoples and their relations the to that having
those robots and being able to investigate some of those
questions by looking at them and maybe also to co
shape and, and answer to some of the needs
of people with the use of robots. Uh this
is relevant and, and how we can do it
by looking at those um at those relations. Yeah
, in a relational way understood as a, in
a, in a way as proposed by um Damiano
and Da Michel, for example. So in terms
of some kind of emergent um phenomena, we have
action and reaction and, and the direction of the
robot is affecting us. And it is a complex
way of, you know, like um some kind
of uh biological uh behaviors, something new is emerging
. And this uh this, this new thing is
uh probably mo and 100% more important to us because
we are this conscious uh and intentional uh partner of
this, this interaction. And, and yeah,
and this is, this is what is crucial here
that whatever robot do and can I I'm not gonna
say feel because of course, it is a nonsense
but whatever it the robot and process maybe uh it
is not that important at this moment, right?
When, when we think about human robot interactions,
it is important when we think about robot rights and
like question like that kind of questions. But but
when we think about the development of our society and
our knowledge about ourselves and our society, I believe
that um there are concepts of empathy and emotions that
are much more interesting than just saying robots cannot empathize
, they cannot feel. So we cannot empathize with
them because this won't be a real empathy. So
you are, you are all diseased like you are
all lying to yourself. You cannot have those feelings
and if you think you have those feelings, yeah
, it is not true, right? This is
very uncreative way of, of talking about the that
that kind of problems from my perspective. It's,
it's easy to say you are lying to yourself.
It's much more interesting to say maybe there is something
here that is happening and we have to investigate this
again process, right? Um Yeah, I love
the process while thinking about relations and entities and uh
about our environment and, and I think it,
it makes um my life as a researcher mu much
more exciting than if I would just stuck with those
conservative uh and very again, very stable and essentialist
categories. Uh Because probably as you see that um
my way of thinking about using category of race in
biomedical research and empathy here is somehow similar like how
to maybe revise it, understand it and precise it
to make it more useful and and more appropriate,
maybe. Mhm For scientifical use. No. Yeah
, that, that makes for a very interesting parallel
here. Uh and connects very well. I guess
our prior discussion about race and ethnicity with these discussion
about empathy applied to human robot interaction. So Johan
uh I think that perhaps this is a good point
to end on to wrap up our interview on.
So just before we go, would you like to
tell people where they can find you and your work
on the internet? Oh, yeah, of course
, I'm not prepared for that. But, um
, it's very easy to find me on Twitter or
Research Gate or uh other sources. I also have
my website. Uh I don't remember the address right
now. Uh However, if you look for Yona
Carolina Malinovsky on the Twitter or research guide or uh
my university uh website, there is a link to
, to, to my uh site as well.
So, yeah, if you are interested in anything
I do, you can always email me or uh
yeah, I will be very happy to answer to
any question. And thank you one more time for
um your invitation, Ricardo. And it was a
huge pleasure and a huge honor for me to be
here. Uh Sorry for being so chaotic and sorry
for my uh language problems. Uh But I hope
it was a pleasure uh somehow interesting for, for
you. Thank you for all of those who listened
to it in the end. No, really?
No. Look, it was great. I had
lots of fun talking to you. So thank you
so much for accepting the invitation. And uh if
you're open to it, please come on the show
again somewhere in the future because I bet that we
will have some other very interesting things to talk about
. And Thank you for your kind words and thank
you again for coming on the show. Of course
. Thank you very much. Hi guys. Thank
you for watching this interview. Until the end.
If you liked it, please share it. Leave
a like and hit the subscription button. The show
is brought to you by N Lights Learning and development
. Then differently check the website at N lights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or paypal
. I would also like to give a huge thank
you to my main patrons and paypal supporters, Perera
Larson, Jerry Muller and Frederick Suno Bernard Seche O
of Alex Adam Castle Matthew Whitting be no wolf,
Tim Ho Erica LJ Conners, Philip Forrest Connolly.
Then the Met Robert Wine in NAI Z Mark Nevs
calling Hol Brookfield, Governor Mikel Stormer Samuel Andre Francis
for Agns Ferus and H her meal and lain.
Jung Y and the K Hes Mark Smith J Tom
Hummel s friends, David Sloan Wilson. Ya dear
, Ro Ro Diego, Jan Punter, Romani Charlotte
Bli Nicole Barba, Adam Hunt, Pavlo Stassi Na
Me, Gary G Alman Sam of Zed YPJ Barboza
, Julian Price Edward Hall, Eden Broner Douglas Fry
Franca, Beto Lati W Cortez or Solis Scott Zachary
FTD and W Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul
Giorgio, Luke Loki, Georgio, Theophano Chris Williams
and Peter Wo David Williams, the Ausa Anton Erickson
Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralie
Chevalier, Bangalore, Larry Dey junior, old Ebon
Starry, Michael Bailey. Then Spur by Robert Grassy
Zorn. Jeff mcmahon, Jake Zul Barnabas Radick,
Mark Kempel, Thomas Dvor Luke Neeson, Chris Tory
Kimberley Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert Jessica. No week.
Linda Brendan Nicholas Carlson, Ismael Bensley Man George Katis
, Valentine Steinman, Perras, Kate Von Goler,
Alexander Albert Liam Dan Biar Masoud Ali Mohammadi Perpendicular Jer
Urla. Good enough, Gregory Hastings David Pins of
Sean Nelson, Mike Levin and Jos Net. A
special thanks to my producers is our web, Jim
Frank Lucani. Tom Vig and Bernard N Cortes Dixon
, Bendik Mueller Thomas Rumble, Catherine and Patrick Tobin
, John Carl Negro, Nick Ortiz and Nick Golden
. And to my executive producers, Matthew lavender,
Sergi, Adrian Bogdan Knit and Rosie. Thank you
for all.